Attorney General Says State Cannot Refuse To Accept Syrian Refugees Tennessee Attorney General Herbert Slattery III says in an opinion that the state cannot legally refuse to accept Syrian refugees. In the opinion issued Monday, he stated, "Such a refusal would impinge on and conflict with the federal government's authority to regulate the admission of aliens to the United States and thus would violate the Supremacy Clause of the U.S. Constitution." The attorney general added, "It bears noting that, while the State of Tennessee must respect the federal government's determination that particular aliens are entitled to refugee status and admission to the United States, the State is not precluded from communicating with the federal government about concerns relating to the placement of refugees within the State. "Federal law specifically requires the agencies that are responsible for refugee resettlement to consult with State and local governments concerning 'the intended distribution of refugees among the States and localities before their placement in those States and localities.' "And those agencies are required, to the extent possible, to "take into account recommendations of the State." Tennessee law, too, recognizes the importance of communication between the State and the federal government; it establishes a process for Tennessee's office of refugees to request a moratorium from the federal government on refugee resettlement in localities that lack 'absorptive capacity.' "" Fleischmann, Graves Vote To Suspend Syrian Refugee Admission The House of Representatives passed the SAFE Act on Thursday to suspend the admission of Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the United States until security officials can certify the integrity of the background check process. Following the passage of the SAFE Act Congressman Fleischmann released the following statement: “The United States has a long and proud tradition of welcoming refugees; however we simply can’t accept them at the risk of our safety. Senior law enforcement and intelligence officials have made clear that they are not confident in our vetting system and as such we must press pause on the process. The safety of American citizens will always be my top priority and until we have full confidence in our vetting process we cannot afford to admit Syrian and Iraqi refugees.” Rep. Tom Graves said, “It’s obvious that the threat of militant Islamic terrorism is not, as the president claims, contained. One critical part of preventing attacks on American soil is ensuring terrorists posing as refugees do not enter our country, as one of the Paris attackers apparently did. While we are a generous nation, our national security comes first. Heightening our scrutiny of refugees is in line with our values and helps keep us safe.” The SAFE Act places a moratorium on the admission of Syrian and Iraqi refugees until the following conditions are met: The FBI director certifies the background investigation of each refugee The Secretary of Homeland Security, along with the FBI Director and the Director of National Intelligence, certifies to Congress that each refugee is not a security threat to the U.S. Fleischmann Calls For Halt Of Syrian Refugee Program; Haslam Asks Temporary Suspension Of Refugee Placement In Tennessee Following the recent acts of terror that took place in Paris, Congressman Chuck Fleischmann called for a halt to the United States accepting Syrian refugees: He said, “In light of the horrendous attacks in Paris, I believe that we must halt our refugee program with Syria until the proper safeguards are in place.  The United States has a long and proud tradition of helping those in need, but this is no longer just a humanitarian crisis.  Our top priority must always be protecting the American people.” State Rep. Sheila Butt on Monday morning asked legislators to sign a letter requesting that Governor Bill Haslam take immediate action to block incoming Syrian refugees that may be heading for Tennessee. More than 40 legislators from the Senate and House added their name. This afternoon, Governor Haslam announced that he would be requesting a suspension of refugee placement in Tennessee until the federal government was willing to work more closely with the state of Tennessee in the vetting process. "I'm thankful that Governor Haslam decided to take action. We have seen multiple states taking a stand in order to protect their citizens by blocking incoming Syrian refugees," said Rep. Butt. "Given the fact that Tennessee has already been targeted by radical Islam in Chattanooga just recently, I think it is extremely important that we actually know whether or not these refugees are associated with terror groups such as ISIS." Officials have confirmed that at least one of the terrorists responsible for the attack on Paris arrived in France disguised as a refugee. "It has become clear that terrorists are traveling alongside refugees. While we are certainly empathetic to these refugees, we cannot risk allowing them into the state without proper vetting," said Rep. Butt. "FBI director James Comey has already confirmed that no current vetting process exists." Sheila Butt is the Republican state representative representing parts of Maury County. The U.S. Senate on Monday unanimously passed a resolution authored by Senators Bob Corker (R-Tenn.) and Ben Cardin (D-Md.), the chairman and ranking member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, condemning the terrorist attacks in Paris on Friday and offering thoughts and prayers for the victims, condolences to their families, resolve to support the people of France, and a pledge to defend democracy and stand in solidarity with the country of France and all our allies in the face of this horrific attack on freedom and liberty. The resolution was cosponsored by all 100 members of the Senate. Corker Says Security For Citizens Is Most Important Responsibility Appearing on Fox News Channel’s “America’s Newsroom,” Senator Bob Corker discussed the need to ensure our nation’s refugee program has integrity and warned that our visa waiver program may pose an even greater risk if gaps are not addressed. “I think what people on both sides of the aisle are beginning to realize is the refugee program is certainly something that needs to be looked at…we need to make sure that it has integrity,” said Senator Corker. “But people are realizing that the visa waiver program that we have with multitudes of countries in Europe probably poses a much greater risk to us than even the refugee program. There are all of these tools that exist for people to come into our country, and there are some gaps in them that could pose a security threat. “I understand Senator Dianne Feinstein is introducing a bill…relative to the waiver program I was just talking about, which again, appears to have much greater gaps in it even than the potential gaps that exist with the refugee program. So, I think what you’re going to see happen is, though this veto threat may exist on a piece of legislation, my sense is there is going to be an even broader piece of legislation that is considered by both houses so we can carry out our number one responsibility and that is making sure our citizens are protected.” Tom Graves Votes To Tighten Security Of Visa Waiver Program, Prevent Terrorist Attacks Rep. Tom Graves voted for and the House passed the Visa Waiver Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act (H.R. 158), legislation to tighten security of the Visa Waiver Program (VWP). VWP allows nationals of 38 participating countries, such as the United Kingdom and France, to travel to the U.S. for up to 90 days without obtaining a visa. “Militant Islamic terrorism is threatening the homeland in new ways, and the Visa Waiver Program is now a gaping hole in our national security that must be addressed,” said Rep. Graves. “The way the program currently works, a radicalized citizen of a participating country – who is not otherwise detected – could travel to Iraq or Syria to join the Islamic State, return to their home country, and then travel to the United States without applying for a visa and undergoing the additional screening process a visa application entails. The legislation the House passed today, with overwhelming bipartisan support, will tighten security of the Visa Waiver Program so terrorists cannot use our nation’s generosity to sneak in and attack our communities. I will continue to do everything in my power to put in place safeguards that protect the homeland from terrorist attacks.” Specifically, H.R. 158 denies VWP status to individuals who have connections to terrorist hotbeds like Syria and Iraq, forces the Secretary of Homeland Security to terminate the VWP status of any participating country that does not uphold their obligation to share counterterrorism intelligence and requires participating countries to check travelers against INTERPOL databases. H.R. 158 also requires VWP countries to use fraud-resistant e-passports, U.S. intelligence agencies to conduct more frequent threat assessments of VWP countries and the Department of Homeland Security to take additional steps to identify fraud. Previously, Rep. Graves voted for and the House passed the American SAFE Act (H.R. 4038), legislation requiring the FBI director certify the background investigation of every refugee from Syria and Iraq and requiring that the secretary of Homeland Security, the FBI director, and the director of National Intelligence all certify to Congress that each refugee is not a security threat. These security features would effectively pause the president’s plan to resettle thousands of Syrian refugees in the United States. Corker Rejects Obama Administration’s Possible Accommodation Of Russian Military Support For Assad In Syria During a hearing on the humanitarian crisis in the Middle East, U.S. Senator Bob Corker, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, rejected the Obama administration’s possible accommodation of Russian intervention in Syria and said solutions for the crisis must mitigate the threat from Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad. The administration’s failure to implement a successful strategy for Syria and the broader region has only contributed to the survival of Assad who is responsible for a conflict that has killed 300,000 people since 2011, said Senator Corker. More than 4.1 million people have fled the country and more than 7.6 million are internally displaced. In Iraq, 8.6 million people are in need of humanitarian assistance, and 3.2 million are displaced. “Solutions must address why people are fleeing…and it is incumbent upon us to work towards realistic policies that could bring back the hope of a normal life to those in need,” said Senator Corker. “It now appears that our administration is seriously debating some type of an accommodation with the Russians in order to fight ISIS. It’s difficult to understand how working alongside the backers of Assad could in any way stem the flow of refugees who are fleeing from his barrel bombs.” The committee heard testimony from policy experts and leading non-governmental relief organizations about the scale of the refugee crisis and what steps are necessary to alleviate the suffering of those fleeing their homes throughout the region. David Miliband of the International Rescue Committee pointed to the Assad regime’s barrel bomb attacks as the initial trigger for much of the civilian flight from Syria. “They are facing a pincer movement,” said Mr. Miliband. “[I]t is almost as they flee from the barrel bombs, they end up being driven into the hands of ISIS and that is what is forcing them out.” Dr. Michel Gabaudan with Refugees International expressed his concern over attempts to broker a peace agreement that would not end the threat of Syrian government airstrikes. “My fear is that any attempt at peace that does not immediately have an impact over how, in this case, the barrel bombing [is] being used against civilians, will go nowhere,” said Dr. Gabaudan. “We will be completely discredited by the large majority of the Syrians we meet in neighboring countries.” Tuesday’s hearing was the second in a series over the next few weeks in which the committee is examining further the U.S. role and strategy in the Middle East. Corker To Hold Hearing On State Of U.S. Strategy In The Middle East And The Fight Against ISIS Senator Bob Corker will preside over a hearing titled, “The U.S. Role and Strategy in the Middle East: Syria, Iraq, and the Fight against ISIS” on Wednesday. The hearing will evaluate the current state of U.S. efforts to defeat ISIS, including the humanitarian and refugee crisis, and how those activities fit into a broader U.S. strategy for the Middle East. In a series of hearings over the next few weeks, the committee will be digging even more deeply into the U.S. role and strategy in the Middle East. Wednesday’s hearing will feature testimony from policy experts and a leading non-governmental relief organization. The hearing is scheduled to be webcast live here. Muslim Civil Rights Advocacy Group Calls For Protection Of Muslims In Tennessee In Light Of Statements By Sheriff Hammond The Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR), the nation’s largest Muslim civil rights and advocacy organization, on Tuesday called on public officials "to act to protect the civil rights of Tennessee’s Muslim community following anti-Islam remarks" by Hamilton County Sheriff Jim Hammond. Sheriff Hammond told members of the Hamilton County Pachyderm Club on Monday that he plans to urge other Tennessee sheriffs to monitor Muslims in their jurisdictions. He also claimed that Muslims are planning to take over the state and said, "Islam is communism with a god.” "[Islam is] a state, wrapped in a religion so they can get the tax breaks, so they cannot have government intrusion into their mosques. They are able to use our own system against us," Sheriff Hammond said. "Islam is very good at what they do. They have built a structure to take over this country. And many of the pieces are in place.” CAIR National Communications Director Ibrahim Hooper said, "Given Sheriff Hammond’s extremist views and his stated plan to act on and spread those views, it is incumbent on state and federal officials to take appropriate action to protect the civil and legal rights of the state’s Muslim population.” CAIR recently called on the U.S. Department of Justice "to investigate the civil rights implications of “raw anti-Muslim bigotry” expressed by another Tennessee sheriff who claims President Obama is a Muslim who 'belongs to the Muslim Brotherhood' and says he plans to monitor law-abiding members. Four statewide organizations, the American Center for Outreach, the American Civil Liberties Union of Tennessee, the American Muslim Advisory Council, and the Tennessee Immigrant and Refugee Rights Coalition, released a joint statement Wednesday in response to recent anti-Muslim comments from several elected officials and law enforcement leaders: "Recently the sheriffs of Hamilton and Sevier Counties have both made alarmist and sensational anti-Muslim comments, on the heels of similar statements from state legislators. Inaccurate, sweeping indictments made by leaders in law enforcement endanger members of the very communities that they have taken an oath to protect.  Not only do these statements send the wrong message to their respective communities, they stoke the flames of hate that could incite attacks against peaceful Americans. "Tennessee’s elected public servants should seek to serve all Tennesseans—from all ethnic backgrounds and all religions. This is especially true with regard to law enforcement officials who are charged with insuring our day-to-day community safety. We urge law enforcement and Tennessee’s elected officials to acknowledge and ensure that all Tennesseans are treated fairly and equally under the law. "Collectively, our organizations look forward to working with Sheriff Hammond, Sheriff Seals and other law enforcement and elected officials who have concerns or need assistance connecting with their local Muslim communities."Paul Galloway, executive director of the American Center for Outreach, said, “Sadly, inciting statements like those made by Sheriff Hammond erode public trust and disrupt community and law enforcement relationships. Perhaps even more urgently, his statements reinforce negative and inaccurate stereotypes of the American Muslim community, which could very well result in hate crimes and discrimination.” Hedy Weinberg, ACLU-TN executive director, added, “Muslims, like people from all religious traditions, have a clear constitutional right to practice their religion freely without fear of harassment and harm.  The recent Islamophobic statements made by law enforcement encourage racial and cultural profiling, violating our American values of fair treatment and equal protection under the law.  Basing law enforcement decisions on false stereotypes rather than actual police work or evidence of criminal activity is not only a waste of resources, it undermines community-police relations, eroding public safety as a whole.” “The Tennessee Muslim community has long and very positive relationships with all levels of law enforcement in order to enhance the security of all Tennesseans,” said Zulfat Suara of the American Muslim Advisory Council. “Law enforcement leaders and other elected officials who do not have active relationships with their local Muslim communities need to establish those relationships.  Ignorance is not an excuse for those who are entrusted with public safety.” Stephanie Teatro, co-executive director of the Tennessee Immigrant and Refugee Rights Coalition, continued, “It is irresponsible for elected officials who have sworn to uphold the constitution to cast suspicion on a large segment of our community based solely on where they are from or how they worship. As demographics continue to change in Tennessee we urge elected officials to respond in a way that upholds our American values, rather than creating fear and division.” Corker To Hold Hearing On Humanitarian Crisis In Middle East U.S. Senator Bob Corker, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, will preside over a hearing on Tuesday titled, “The U.S. Role and Strategy in the Middle East: The Humanitarian Crisis”. The hearing will evaluate the current state of U.S. efforts to address the humanitarian and refugee crisis and how those activities fit into a broader U.S. approach to the Middle East. This is the second in a series of hearings over the next few weeks in which the committee will be digging even more deeply into the U.S. role and strategy in the Middle East. Tuesday’s hearing will feature testimony from policy experts and leading non-governmental relief organizations. 
